hi guys I'm Laura Vitale on this episode
of Laura in the kitchen I'm going to
share with you my recipe for a classic
Caesar salad now I some of you might
know I used to work with my dad in a
restaurant for a very very long time and
we always made our own dressing and the
Caesar salad was one of the most popular
salads and the dressing was probably the
reason for that so let's take let me
take you over two ingredients so you can
get started you're gonna need some fresh
romaine lettuce that I've washed dried
and chopped some stale bread preferably
Italian bread that I just chopped into
cubes or bite-size pieces freshly grated
parmigiano-reggiano some where's your
sauce you're getting some garlic little
anchovy paste Dijon mustard fresh lemon
juice salt pepper and good quality extra
virgin olive oil now in the restaurant
we decided to when we came up with the
Caesar salad dressing recipe we've made
a decision that we were not going to be
putting raw eggs in it now real
traditional traditional Caesar salad
dressing does have roe egg as an
emulsifier just to kind of keep
everything together we didn't want to do
that because you're serving it to the
public you know you don't know who has
allergies or who just can't consume raw
eggs so we thought we were going to just
omit it and then add in a little Dijon
mustard and that's the emulsifier that's
what keeps it all together so great news
no raw eggs in this recipe and the
anchovy paste is completely optional you
do kind of need it for a traditional
Caesar dressing recipe you won't taste
the anchovy but it just tastes like a
salty background if you've eaten Caesar
salad out somewhere I'm sure that it has
an chilies in it so if you'd like that
then chances are you like this recipe
okay first thing you wanna do is get
your oven preheated to 400 because we're
gonna get our croutons in there because
it kind of takes the longest to kind of
come together what I have here is just
some Italian bread that's I bought it
yesterday so it's a little stale and I'm
going to drizzle a little bit of olive
oil on them and then just toss it into
the olive oil just like so it's going to
get flavor and help it brown and now I'm
just going to put this into the oven and
let them cook or bake for about 10
minutes
until they're lightly golden brown and
crispy now while the croutons are bakin
away we're going to make the dressing I
like to make mine in a just a big glass
jar like this but it's easy you can do
this in a little Bowl obviously in here
I'm going to put in my anchovy paste in
my Dijon mustard okeydoke and then we're
going to put in the wash is your sauce
fresh lemon juice and then for the
garlic you can either mince it really
really finely or you can just use a
grater to grate it so that you know it's
super super fine because you don't want
to bite down yeah we don't want that you
don't want to be able to bite down on a
big piece it keeps going in there I
don't know why but I'm just going to
keep getting it until there we go you're
mine now I win okay get it off the back
and now I'm going to my little Halfmoon
whisk and I'm going to whisk this all
together so I want to make sure that the
garlic and the Dijon mustard and the
anchovy is well mixed and now while
whisking I'm going to drizzle in some
good quality extra virgin olive oil now
looks great like that but now for this
we're going to add in our freshly grated
parmigiano Reggiano I grade it ahead of
time just to save on time now I think
this is most common for a Caesar
dressing but I do know that some places
have like a Mayo based
Caesar dressing I personally don't care
for that that's why I make my own so
this is how I like it
I control what's in it and that's pretty
much how I roll so now I don't to do is
I want to taste it now I'm not seasoning
it yet I'm going to taste it first
perfect so I know how much I much salt
to put in because the anchovy paste is
of course salty and the cheese is salty
so I don't want to go blindly into it
and season it so I'll just give it a
slight taste so good it is just
delicious delicious dressing and you do
not trust me I've said this before to
you
as if you've been cooking for me for a
while you know that I do not care for
wrong anchovies at all in fact you know
this more traditionally used like
anchovy fillets I use the anchovy paste
because they're just no texture it's
just smooth sailing and it just gives a
salty but you don't taste any fish so
now I'm just going to clean up get my
croutons put the thing together and wait
my croutons are ready if they don't
leave more in the oven for I would say
about 10 minutes oh yeah so excited this
is one my favorites
definitely one of my husband's favorite
salads I'm not going to pour all the
dressing on it because I personally
don't like a salad when it's ground and
dressing I like you when it's just
coated lightly mmm if you want to you
can put some more cheese on top I know I
will but just not just yet I want to
give this a good toss and then give it a
taste I'm excited I'm 1/3 watering I
will do that let me eat a little bit for
now I'm just gonna give it a taste I
need I want that piece right there okay
this is gonna be a mouthful
hmm
wow it's so good and when you make it
let's see why everybody always loves it
not fishy not overpowering
it's just perfect tap it with some
grilled chicken and you have the best
grilled chicken Caesar salad of life hmm
I hope you've enjoyed my time with me
give this recipe a try because once you
do I guarantee you'll never buy the
bottled stuff ever again
it tastes ten times better took 30
seconds to put together and you're going
to enjoy it and I promise you that to
get this recipe and others with wwr in
the kitchen com I'm going back for more
and I see you next time